Hey everyone and thanks for dropping
back into the macroverse.
Today we're going to talk about how
Jerome Powell is stepping down as chair
of the Federal Reserve. If you guys like
the content, make sure you subscribe to
the channel, give the video a thumbs up,
and also check out the sale on into the
cryptoverse premium at into the
cryptoverse.com.
Before we jump in, I'm gonna try
something a little bit new this year. uh
kind of coming out of left field, but
I'm going to try to have a conference um
and probably in Miami. It's not set in
stone yet. Probably in Q4.
And if you're interested, just go to
benjaminc.com/conference.
I'll put the link down in the pinned
comment as well and in the description.
And if you're interested, you can always
fill out the form and that way you can
get on the email list to get updates if
you're interested in in potentially
going. And I will say it's not, you
know, the focus of this is not just
going to be a crypto conference. We're
the idea is to talk about markets in
general and to do so from a very
rational point of view. That that's the
goal, okay? and and to to look at the
markets for what they are and to you
know get people to come up and talk
about certain topics and and have it be
sort of a well-rounded conference in the
terms of topics that are talked about.
So there'll be some discussions about
say Bitcoin, macro, um stocks, just
stocks and other stuff. So gold
obviously would probably be a relevant
one as well. So, if you're interested,
check out the website,
benjaminc.com/conference,
and um we'll be sending out emails and
whatnot as as time goes on. So, today's
a big day because Jerome Powell has
officially stepped down as chair of the
Federal Reserve. And I want to, you
know, sort of draw your attention to
something that I I I think is relevant.
And it's it's one of those things where
when people celebrate certain things
happening, it it's not always what
people it's not things are not always as
they seem. I should say remember when
Gendler left office, people celebrated,
but Bitcoin didn't really go that much
higher. In fact, there was a correction
right away.
And then it did go higher, right? But
there was a correction. And so I I
wonder this isn't the same level as that
in my in in my opinion like Jerome
Powell stepping down and and Kevin Worsh
going in. I mean Kevin Worsh he's he's
only one vote, right? Like he's not
going to just be able to unilaterally
lower rates just because he wants to. He
has to get consensus from everyone else.
And I got to be honest with you guys, I
do not envy his job. It is going to be a
very difficult job in my opinion because
there is a tremendous amount of pressure
to lower interest rates. But how are you
going to lower rates when you have
inflation shooting back up? We just got
the the PPI data a few days ago that
came in at what, like 6% or something. I
don't even know. I we might have that on
the um on the website. I can't even
remember if we do. I know we have the
CPI stuff. You look at inflation
year-over-year
that's starting to move back up, right?
So, you can see that it headline
inflation is starting to move back up.
Here we have the producer price
inflation month over month uh for a lot
of different countries. And here it is
for the United States. I mean, look at
this. Look at this big spike that we're
seeing in the PPI.
Here we have
year-over-year.
And you can see just how much it's it's
been going up recently. So
I do not envy Kevin Morris's job. And
look, it's going to be super easy for
all of us to be armchair economist.
Super easy. But I don't know, like what
would you do if you were helm? Would you
push for lower rates as inflation heads
back up? I know the administration is
saying that this is just a temporary
spike in inflation and hopefully it is,
but the problem is that we don't know
yet how long it's going to last. It
could last potentially far longer than
anyone thinks it's going to. If you look
at oil, if you look at the the the price
of oil,
I don't think it's over yet in terms of
this move up. I I think we're looking at
at structurally higher oil prices
probably for the rest of the year, but
there's been a lot of patterns like this
in the past where you have these like
longerterm moving averages. You have the
20we SMA, the 21week EMA, you get
something that gets a massive breakout
and then it just doesn't go anywhere for
a long time. But what happens is some of
these moving averages kind of catch up
with it. And you can see it already
found support once at the 21week EMA.
And as it catches up, it then forces oil
to make up its mind.
And so there's a risk that later this
year we get another surge in oil prices.
You know, one of the interesting things
about the markets
is how cyclical they are, right?
If you look at the S&P 500, all right,
and I know a lot of people are familiar
with Bitcoin's four-year cycle, and if
you're not,
you should get familiar with it
relatively soon because essentially,
Bitcoin does this thing where it bottoms
approximately every four years, right?
The end of 2014, early 2015, the end of
2018, the end of 2022. And that's one of
the reasons why I keep saying, look, the
end of 2026. I know it's hard in the
short term. It's going to be even harder
if if Bitcoin rallies up into the mid
80s, but
I think there's a good chance that
Bitcoin will go lower into Q4 of 2026.
And so, a lot of people think that
Bitcoin has this monopoly on the
four-year cycle, but that's not true at
all. Right? I mean, the stock market
does the same exact thing. It bottoms
approximately every four years. We'll
look at recently, but again, look at the
50s, 60s,7s, and 80s.
Look at this. and have an open mind.
1958,
1962, 1966, 1970, 1974, 1978.
Guess what? 1982.
Approximately every four years. And then
occasionally it breaks. Occasionally it
breaks and you don't get it because if
you go from 82 to 86, you don't really
get a low in ' 86, but then you end up
sweeping that low in ' 87. So, the
four-year cycle exists outside of
Bitcoin, which is why I don't think the
reason for Bitcoin's cycles, four
cycles, is not because of the having. If
it was because of the having, why does
the stock market like to bottom
approximately every four years?
It's not like there's a having over
there.
And even recently, you can see that
there's every four years, right? Look at
this. the end of uh the end of 2014, the
end of 2018, the end of 2022.
What causes the four-year cycle to
break?
A lot of times it breaks for the wrong
reasons, right? It breaks to the
downside. Like how you had a low in 20
or 2002,
but you didn't really get a major low in
2006, but it was because we had already
had a two and a half year bare market,
right? So get off the back of of that
with the bull market. when you go down
two and a half years, that would be a
reason for maybe the four cycle to break
is because there was such a long
downturn that all the all the bulls had
been completely annihilated. Um, and
then we ended up still getting a major
crash. So, when I look at this chart,
what do I see? I see what what disrupts
the four-year cycle.
It's when you get recessions like look
at what happened in 2020. You also sort
of swept it actually in 2016,
which is kind of crazy to think about.
Why is that crazy thing about in 2015
2016 there was also some recession
fears. I don't think a lot of people
remember that but there were some fears.
So
ignore the noise for a moment. Let's say
we don't know why the S&P swept the low
in 2020. Let's say we don't know why the
S&P swept the 2014 low in 2016.
We don't know why because we're just
looking at the chart.
happened in early 2016, early 2020. In
Q1,
it happened. Now, look at this. Look at
how the stock market keeps finding lows
at very key times. Either March or
October. You've got March of 2025,
March, April. You got March 2026, and
then you have October 2023 and October
2022.
I don't know what it is, but March and
October are some of the weakest moments
in in the bare market. That doesn't mean
every October is weak. In fact, Bitcoin
often can be strong in October. But when
you're in the bare market, that's
usually when the selling sort of
climaxes around that point is around
that October time frame. Go back to the
dot era. Look at when the major lows
occur. Even on the way up, right?
October of 98, October of 99, March of
2001,
October of 2001, and then the low, the
final low was October of 2002. You see
that? And then a higher low in March.
October and March. It was relevant back
then.
It's been relevant for the last decade.
October and March seem to sort of pop
back up. Look at this. October of 2014.
This one in 2018 was a little bit later.
It was December. So, it kind of broke
that. But what if that's the way it
plays out is in 2018
the stock market had two corrections and
then a final correction in 2020 with the
recession. We've already had one
correction this year. My guess is we get
a second correction in the back half of
the year. Just like Bitcoin had two
corrections last year. You had your
early correction in Q1
and then you had another correction in
Q4. So you had one in Q1 and one in Q4.
I'm suggesting we've already got one
under our belt in Q1. We'll likely have
another big correction either in Q3 or
Q4. That doesn't mean we can't have
drops between now and then. We probably
will. And usually when you get a new Fed
share, I mean that can introduce some
uncertainty. We're probably going to add
something to the website to try to look
at that. It's not as bad as I thought
when I was briefly looking at it, but it
certainly will introduce some
uncertainty. And look at when Powell or
should I look at when Ginsler left in uh
in 2025 and when the new administration
sort of took over in January, the market
still held on for a couple of months
before the correction started. So
imagine it does that, right? Like
imagine
we hold on here for a couple of months
and then the correction starts. Maybe we
even go higher later in the year.
There's a lot of times the market will
like to top in say like September time
frame in midterm years. In fact in 2018
that's when it topped September.
So what if that's the way it works? You
get a couple of small corrections in the
summer and then you get a larger
correction in Q3 Q4 and then you've
basically repeated Bitcoin. you did your
Q1 correction and then your secondary
correction later on. And it's the
secondary correction by the stock market
in 2018 that caused this not caused that
coincided
with Bitcoin's correction. Right? So if
you look at this, let me reload this. If
you look at Bitcoin in 2018
and you overlay the S&P 500, what do you
see? You have one correction early on by
by uh Bitcoin that corresponded to that
correction by the stock market and then
you had another correction by the stock
market that then led Bitcoin to go
lower. Doesn't really seem fair, does
it? But it is fair. The reason why it's
fair is because in the bull market,
Bitcoin outperformed the stock market a
ton. I mean, from October, November 2022
to uh October 25, Bitcoin went up 700%.
Now, there are some officials that do
not understand percentages, but a 700%
increase is an 8x move, not a 7x move,
it's an 8x move. Because if you think
about it, it it actually makes a lot of
sense. If a 100% This is way everyone
can understand it pretty well. If a 100%
is 2x move, right? You can think about
that, right? If if an asset goes up 200
100% you doubled your money. 200%
would then be 3x, right?
So then 700%
is 8x. So if Bitcoin can go up 8x in the
bull market while the stock market
essentially doubles,
then of course Bitcoin can seem unfair
in the bare market. While the S&P puts
in a higher high in 2018 while Bitcoin
put in a lower high and then when the
stock market got a correction, then
Bitcoin got annihilated again. But then
guess what? After Bitcoin got
annihilated and went to $3,100 or
whatever went to in late 2018, it then
ran up 20x in the next bull market. So,
it is fair when you think about it. It
is fair.
So, Kevin Worsh is going to have his
work cut out for him because what I
think is going to happen, I could be
wrong. There's two ways this could play
out. I'll give you both.
The primary way that I see at this
moment is he comes in and there's
pressure to cut,
but he's looking at the energy market
and he's like,
"How how the hell do I cut?" And if even
if he wants to cut, the other members
probably won't.
Look at the prediction markets.
They're talking about more than a 50%
chance the Fed cuts
within the next 12 months.
This is how it could play out. I want to
paint the picture for you. Okay,
Bitcoin, you know, it's in its counter
trend rally. Secondary correction
happens in the stock market, causes
Bitcoin to go down. Inflation continues
to head higher. People start freaking
out.
And then
as Bitcoin finds a low in Q4, everyone's
worried because we got rate hikes
coming. We have rate hikes coming. So
everyone panics and they say the four
year cycle's over.
But here's the thing.
If rate hikes happen,
they're probably going to be small.
And when you get rate hikes, it actually
normally means the economy is kind of
hot. And usually one rate hike isn't
going to really turn the needle that
much. So
think about how do played out.
This could play out the same way.
Honestly,
think about how it played out. They
lowered rates.
They reignited the animal spirits.
They raised rates.
until something broke
and then something broke and then they
lowered rates back down.
What if it happens again, right?
Animal spirits reignited. They have to
start raising rates again.
People freak out. Bitcoin goes up
anyways. And then sometime in the next
cycle, rates fall off a cliff as finally
something breaks when they start raising
rates again.
Seems possible. The other outcome, which
would actually make Kevin Wars's job a
hell of a lot easier. So that's that's
option one is what I just said. Option
two is they already broke something and
it's just, you know, it's taken a while
to get there. Now I don't see it. like I
don't know what's broken yet. I don't I
don't see anything broken right now. Um
looks can be deceiving. So maybe
something has broken and by later this
year we'll see that and then they just
start lowering rates and then Kevin Wars
can basically just do what he was put
into office to do and that was lower
rates. But the problem is if he's
lowering rates and he's getting
consensus to lower rates, maybe there's
a reason he's finding consensus is
because the markets are falling apart.
So I don't know which way it's going to
go. But later this year, I would argue
that the Bitcoin will start to look a
little bit more attractive again. And I
know right now a lot of people are like,
you know what, it just rallied from 60K
to 80K have, you know, is that like what
what's going on? Like why is it is it
not? But remember like every every bare
market you can see that after after
getting these corrections
Bitcoin likes to rally back up you know
like look at this after early year
correction in February April rallied
back up to the 382 and then it went
lower right it went lower look at it in
2018 same thing right you get the
correction into February rallied up to
the 382 eventually it went lower 2020
2022 same thing you know same exact
thing.
You drop, you rally up to the 382 and
then you go lower. I don't know if we're
going to make it to the 382. It'd be in
the mid 80s if we do. But here's the
thing. I mean, the the point is is
it doesn't negate anything, right? Like
Bitcoin could go up there and it doesn't
negate the bare market. I I mean I could
be wrong and the problem with my view is
if I am wrong it would take Bitcoin
basically holding above 100K for a few
weeks for me to even believe it at that
point which isn't really a great place
to be if you only care about Bitcoin
but if you care about other markets it's
not a big deal because
you know I've been an investor in the
energy market and in metals and in
manufacturing and in in international
stocks and in emerging markets and
they're all destroying Bitcoin right
now. So, if you only care about Bitcoin,
obviously these counter trend rallies
are going to draw you back in. But if
you can have a sort of a mindset around,
hey, Bitcoin is one asset
in a basket of a lot of different
assets. And Bitcoin is great at what it
does, but every four years it sucks. for
whatever reason, it just sucks and then
it starts doing well again.
And I don't know if there's a narrative
to accompany a drop later this year, but
I think there will be. And if and when
that happens and they start raising
rates again, people might get scared,
but that actually might be a great time
to buy.
We'll see what happens. We'll see how
this plays out. I do not envy Kevin
Wor's job. I will say Pal did an okay
job. I think he did a pretty good job
with what he was given. And I want to
say a couple of things.
Powell
was not solely responsible for
the inflation spike,
but I think there is some blame.
To be an armchair economist looking back
with hindsight, should should Pal have
raised rates? Should the Fed have raised
rates in 2021?
Absolutely. Absolutely. They should have
raised rates in 2021. So, they got that
wrong. They got that wrong. And then we
basically spent a long time paying the
price. But on the other hand, there were
stimulus checks and stuff sent out.
There were supply chain issues. It's not
like it was solely the Fed's fault,
although a big part of the fault does
blame does lie on the Fed or allowing it
to get as bad as it did. What I also
have a hard time
accepting, right, is if the inflation
target
is 2%.
We haven't been at 2% in 5 years.
So, what are we doing? What What are we
doing here? We haven't Why haven't they
gotten it back down? Well, because
they're trying to engineer that soft
landing. If you look at the business
cycle chart, they're trying to engineer
that soft landing. They don't They're
trying to get us to get back down to the
lows without inducing a recession. And
we were heading that direction, right?
And you could see the plane was coming
in for a soft landing. But now this
thing's spiking back up because
inflation is going up.
So imagine after all this time,
after all the work that was put in, the
slow methodical rate hikes followed by
small rate cuts if it all if it's all
for not because we end up getting a hard
landing anyways because of the spike in
inflation in a late business cycle
environment. That doesn't mean it
finishes now. I I think the business
cycle is still taking a couple of years
to play out. I just think it will have
played out over approximately the next
couple of years. I would say early 2029
at the absolute latest. I'm not talking
about early 2029 for a top. I'd be
talking about early 2029 at the latest
for a bottom, not a top. The the top
should occur before then in my opinion.
So,
we'll see what Kevin Worsh wants to do.
My guess is he's not going to be able to
cut rates anytime soon unless there's
something that breaks that we're not
seeing right now. But it looks like
rates are probably going to hold steady
through the summer and there's a risk of
them starting to go up in 2027
and we'll see if they can do that
without breaking something. So those are
my thoughts on the market. Um you know
pal I think he did a good job. I think
he made some mistakes like we all do. Um
but if you're honest with yourself again
we all make mistakes and just because
you're on the you know one of the
biggest stages doesn't mean you're
immune to making mistakes. Everyone's
going to make mistakes. We do the best.
We learn from them. We move on. I get
things wrong, you know? I mean, I've
been wrong about a thousand things since
I started this YouTube channel. And I
try to learn from them, right? Sometimes
I get it right. Sometimes I get it
wrong. And, you know, some years are
better than others. I did pretty well in
2024 and 2025. Um, 2023 not as much. It
just depends like some years are good,
some years are bad. We do the best we
can. We learn from our mistakes. We move
on. And that's the goal. And so again,
if you want to follow along, make sure
you subscribe to the channel. Um, I'm
approaching a million subscribers.
That's a pretty cool thing. And again,
if you are interested in in attending uh
the conference, make sure you fill out
this form. Again, none of this stuff is
set in stone yet. Uh, but it's kind of
what we're thinking, right? Like Miami,
it could change. Q4, it could change.
But that's what we're thinking right
now. So, check it out. Links in the
description below or the pinned comment.
Thank you guys for tuning in. Subscribe.
Give the video a thumbs up. And I'll see
you guys next time. Bye.